---
layout: post
title: Left, Right, Art
excerpt: Finding and thoughts on the way drawing
---

Our brain is clearly have two parts, and I do not know whether it makes you surprised or not but the left hemisphere controls the right part of the body, while the other hemisphere takes in charge of the left one. Because of the dominance of the left brain, most of us is right hand. I am amazed by the ability of "switching" from the left mode (L-mode) to the right mode (R-mode) by feeding us illogical information. 

For example: 

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\Violettes_du_20_mars_1815_Canu_Jean-Dominique-Étienne-722x1024.jpeg" description="Violettes du 20 Mars 1815" width=400 %}

When I say it is flowers, you would probably said to yourself "it's fine". But what if I say it has the profiles of Napoleon, Marie Louise, and the King of Rome. Now, your left brain is like: "it does not make any sense", and now the regime of right brain comes. It consumes everything included illogical things, you starting to feel some profiles from the picture by using your imagination. These kinds of puzzle print is very common in art.

 It starting to feel like there is a war between L-mode and R-mode from the beginning. At first L-mode is like: "I invented camera, it makes your pictures look blur as hell". Then R-mode is evolved, it created art puzzle, abstract art that make L-mode goes crazy (300,000$ for an incense art work).

From the dominance of the left brain and the natural of wandering in your mind, when you are trying to meditate, you are also trying to "turn off" (or at least alleviate) the dominance of the left hemisphere. Thoughts that comming from the mind is inevitable, but you are trying not to analyze it. Of course, it is very hard and requires practice. But people who used to with mental shift (L-mode to R-mode) can be more creative than who don't.

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\van-gogh-starry-night.jpg" description="Incredible air flow in 'The Starry Night'" width=400 %}

We might start balance at first, but the fact that the left brain was so dominance means that, despite our perfect symmetry, we are conciously not. I sometimes encourage myself try to draw, meditation,... any kind of action, as long as I shut the left brain down for a while.
 
 \* If you want to see how dominance is your left hemisphere, I suggest the excersice called [Vases and faces](https://www.drawright.com/try-an-exercise).

## Materials
[Drawing on the right side of the brain Chapter 3, 4](https://www.drawright.com/)

[The unexpected math behind Van Gogh's "Starry Night" - Natalya St. Clair](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PMerSm2ToFY)