---
layout: post
title: On College
excerpt: things that i concluded after 4 years in college
---

It's been 4 years since I moved to Ha Noi for college. Changing the environment helps me alter my old self. Here are a few major, expensive lessons that I concluded after four years. Although some of it may seem obvious, but it took me time to realize. I'll keep it short so that it does not read like my diary ranting about college.

## 1. Try, there will be luck.

Opportunities come constantly. One should try even if one is not eligible. Keep in mind that luck is an important but hard to control factor.

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\luck.png"  %}


## 2. Short-term, detailed plan do not work

Short-term, detailed plan is just a wasted of time. Instead, long term, simple plan work best.

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\plan.png"  %}

## 3. Do, without thinking of the result.

This is the most unintuitive thing I learned throughout college. When you are given a task, there are two ways to complete it: by changing the process in order to match the result you expect, or by changing the process in order to get the best result. The difference is that one focuses on the result, and the other focuses on the process. In my experience, focusing on the result helps you stay on track, but focusing on the process helps you go far beyond what you expected.

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\dowtresult.png"  %}

## Ranting

- It takes me a while to realize that I do not love this job, what I love in general is a job where I can inject my creativity into.
- Appearance is important, but it's usually the last things I need and sometimes it's optional.
- As an introvert, my friend define my personality and habit.
- People have money know in advance what they should do and where they should go, therefore they have more chances to be successful.

## Regrets

Unfortunately, I haven't yet think of anything that I regrets during my college. This, in my opinion, is bad. No regrets means I'm utterly ignorant. You only have regrets if you aware of what you missed. 

## Memories

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\graduate.JPG" description="Graduation ceremony"  %}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\autochess.jpg" description="Playing Dota in my first laptop (I still survived the 1st & 2nd year of college with this weak laptop)"  %}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\newlaptop.jpg" description="I bought an old gaming laptop. Later I realize that one should never buy old laptop from someone you dont know. Buy a new one or buy from someone you know!" %}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\CDS.jpeg" description="In a competition of autonomous car. Each car has 3 run if it run outside of the road. My car get stuck at the pole for the first time and the time ran out 😃" %}

{% include videos.html url="\images\post_images\uet\2048.mp4" width=640 height=320 description="My first game in college"%}

{% include videos.html url="\images\post_images\uet\towerdefense.mp4" width=640 height=320 description="One of the most 'creative' game we ever created"%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\cantho.JPG" description="I had a chance to attend a competion in Can Tho, this is also the first time I fly"%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\animeg.png" description="Typical meeting in an IT class"%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\xoaiuet.jpg" description="lucky mango"%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\4trap.png" description=""%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\garbage.png" description="I usually played many games with my friends every Wed"%}

{% include images.html url="\images\post_images\uet\khoaluan.png" description="Before the thesis"%}

this might be the last english article in my blog since my english is broken af 😂